---
title: BT solution (BT infinity)
layout: default
allowComments: true
---

## BT infinity

BT's Infinity service provides high-speed broadband over the existing telephone line. In order to
work, BT needs to install a telephone cabinet near to the subscribing properties. In our case,
our lines can be enabled for Infinity but the nearest cabinet is in Botley. Unfortunately that is
considerably too far from the village for us to be able to get fast broadband.

For BT to provide a full service, they would need to bring a fiber-optic cable from Oxford/Botley
all the way to a new cabinet in the village. This is a rather expensive endeavour and BT will not
do this on their own for rural locations. However there are subsidies available for rural
communities and the counci has a target to have 95% of houses covered by 2017.

Unfortunately, larger villages are prioritised over smaller as this allows the target to be met
for the least expenditure. Wytham is one of the smaller villages and so is likely only to be
upgraded towards the end of the period - and that is only if it is chosen to fit within the 95%.

Dave King has been corresponding with council and attempting to encourage them to prioritise our
village. Below is a recent letter from the council explaining the situation for Wytham.

## Letter from the council

To explain the situation in Wytham: in 2012, prior to starting the Better Broadband for Oxfordshire
programme, Oxfordshire County Council undertook an Open Market Review in order to determine which
areas of the county we were able to work in. This requested all commercial providers operating in
the county to respond to the full list of postcodes in the county at the time and state whether or
not they were already working in the postcode area, or whether they had credible plans to do so
over the next three years. The Open Market Review requested that providers respond with plans to
provide NGA broadband – 24mbps. This is because State Aid rules specify that public investment can
only be used entirely in areas defined as:
 

1. ‘Basic white’ – services at a minimum download speed of 2mbps are not available at an affordable 
price and there are no private sector plans to deliver such services over the next three years, or
areas where there is no broadband infrastructure;

2. ‘NGA white’ - where services at an access (download) speed of over 24 Mbps are not available at 
affordable prices and there are no private sector plans to deliver such services in the next three
years; or there is no NGA infrastructure nor private sector plans to invest in such services within
three years.

For the postcodes listed previously, a commercial provider responded to say that 100% of the
premises in the postcode areas were covered in commercial plans. The exception was OX2 8QQ, which
therefore falls within our intervention area, however it is subject to further funding becoming
available.

 

You may be aware that the Vale of White Horse District Council has recently committed to providing 
£250,000 to the programme to fund additional coverage in the district, which in turn OCC is seeking
to match-fund with new funding [recently announced by BDUK](https://www.gov.uk/government/news/250m-boost-taking-superfast-broadband-further-and-faster--251).
OCC is currently in the process of undertaking another Open Market Review and public consultation
in order to determine the areas that this additional funding could be applied to. Once these areas
have been determined, our delivery partners, BT, will be instructed to develop delivery plans for
these areas based on the best value for money possible, at which point we will be able to clarify
whether a specific postcode is included in the scope of the project.

If the situation in Wytham is such that premises are not able to order NGA broadband services it
may be the case that the commercial provider which responded previously to say they had plans to
deliver broadband to the area may respond again and classify these postcodes as not being
commercially viable. This in turn may mean that these postcodes could become part of our
intervention area, although they would be then subject to BDUK’s own value for money criteria.
This process is scheduled to be complete by the end of August this year. 

At the moment I can only provide you with the information as it stands currently, but I want to
assure you that we are continuing to look into this situation and hope to be able to provide you
with more advice soon. We are working closely with BDUK and BT as our partners on this programme
and doing all we can to ensure communities like yourselves are not overlooked.
